Joey Raya: 2018 I was diagnosed with acute pancreatitis, with the lipase, the
Joey Raya: Give or take. And then from there, just kind of escalated and has now turned into a chronic pancreatitis idiopathic I don't have a drug or alcoholic history. I've had a endoscopy colon asked the ER CP Mr Mrs EP
Joey Raya: They thought that it was a pancreatic diversity and they went to put a stent in and that was not the case.
Joey Raya: All my scans are clear. The only thing out of whack. Is my lipase
Joey Raya: Nobody knows why. And so, as of right now, we're just
Joey Raya: I've been seeing a pain management doctor over at UC Irvine. And before I was using. Excuse me. Just one second cat, sorry, I'm sorry.
Joey Raya: The UCI doctors switched to me. Or actually, when they first started me on medication. They gave they had me on
Joey Raya: Methadone Gabba Penton and Percocet, which worked wonderfully and I was on that for about a month.
Joey Raya: Month, a month and a half or so, give or take. And then when I went to go see the pain management group at UC Irvine. That's when she switched me over. So I know I said UC Irvine, a couple of times and I'm, I'm trying to keep everything straight for you. So I apologize.
Joey Raya: I was admitted into UC Irvine, and the palliative team that I was that I saw there while I was in the hospital. There were the ones that changed my medication to the Methadone Percocet.
Joey Raya: Get dependent combination
Dr. Figg: While you were in the hospital.
Joey Raya: Correct. And before that, prior to that, I was taking a
Joey Raya: Morphine and Percocet. Okay. Again, I was RMS cotton just a delayed, you know, extended release.
Joey Raya: And that worked okay but hands down. As of right now, the methadone, you have a patent Percocet, is what worked best for the last about two months.
Joey Raya: I just ran out of my my study text actually and I knew I was going to run out and I knew I was getting here. So I kind of tapered myself off already.
Joey Raya: I know you're not supposed to do that. But I was going to run out completely. And I didn't want to just stop it. So,
Joey Raya: I so I took a
Joey Raya: One milligrams this morning about 5am
Dr. Figg: Okay, how much going on before
Joey Raya: two milligrams three times a day, sublingual
Okay.
Dr. Figg: How much methadone, where you
Joey Raya: 2.5 milligrams also three times a day.
Dr. Figg: And how much purpose.
Joey Raya: It was 10 325 as needed.
Dr. Figg: And how much did you typically take
I'm
Joey Raya: Not every day.
Joey Raya: In a week time
Joey Raya: Maybe I would take it, maybe three out of the four days. Okay. And maybe about three to four times in that day, whenever there's a flare up of some sorts, which
Joey Raya: I'm actually kind of having right now and I'm actually waiting until this appointment is over, and to see how I feel. Because I might go to the ER. Again, I was just there like a week and a half ago my life pace was at. And that's when I got the this process started with with your attention.
Dr. Figg: And how much you have a pencil. Do you take
Joey Raya: 600 milligrams also three times a day. Okay.
Dr. Figg: And that's a study
Joey Raya: Does he
Dr. Figg: Have you been on a higher dose than six milligrams a day of subindex buprenorphine.
Joey Raya: I have not an ER doc suggested that that might be beneficial to me and I'm more than happy to do that.
Joey Raya: Okay, I just fit the thing is is I part of my one of my concerns is
Joey Raya: Sometimes I get acute pain.
Joey Raya: When it when it spikes. And my last time when I went to, to the ER, like I said, My lipase was 880 and their range, I believe, is 75 to 350 if I remember correctly, the Saddleback in in Mission Viejo
Joey Raya: But because I was taking the study texts and he said that he couldn't
Joey Raya: He suggested that I not take anything. And he wasn't sure if it was going to be effective, is that how that works.
Dr. Figg: You can be
Joey Raya: Because I, I know that.
Joey Raya: I do 911 rescue out here in California.
Joey Raya: So I know that
Joey Raya: Study Texan Suboxone they kind of do the same thing, but this Suboxone has the naloxone in it and the subby Texas know if I am I getting that correct. Okay.
Dr. Figg: So, so that's fine.
Dr. Figg: I just kind of want to understand their what the medication history has been you. And you mentioned that since switching over to the buprenorphine the cyber attacks that you haven't been very impressed.
Joey Raya: That is that is correct.
Dr. Figg: Okay, do you have any side effects. So back when you were taking two milligrams three times a day. Did you have any side effects from it.
Joey Raya: Constipation was the biggest one.
Joey Raya: Okay, even taking a Seneca 12. What is a 12.6 milligrams twice a day.
Joey Raya: Just, you know, the over the counter at every once in a while I drink some sanity, but I would get a BM maybe every 36 to 48 hours.
Dr. Figg: Did it make you sleepy.
Joey Raya: Not really know
Joey Raya: Give you a headache. Now,
Dr. Figg: You give you more stomach pain.
Joey Raya: I honestly i i
Joey Raya: Couldn't tell you if they did or not, it's
Dr. Figg: Just one phrase that question that way.
Joey Raya: Okay.
Dr. Figg: Ministry right so it didn't make the pain worse, did it make you nauseated.
Joey Raya: That I wasn't any nauseated anymore less so. All right.
Dr. Figg: It didn't, it didn't cause any highs or anything and didn't give you any severe reactions, but it was
Dr. Figg: OK.
Dr. Figg: Um, what So currently, you're on the buprenorphine and the gamma Penton those medications for pain. Do you take any other medications.
Joey Raya: I also have a, oh, I have toward all 10 milligrams that ER doctor gave to me just on an as needed basis. Okay. Also, I take 100 milligrams of imitrex for migraines just on an as needed basis, but it's been it's been over a month since I've needed to take
Joey Raya: A look at imitrex green
Alright, so
Dr. Figg: Okay, and so you said you had been on pain medication since 2018
Dr. Figg: And your dose been going up over time.
Joey Raya: I'm sorry. Hold on one second here.
Joey Raya: They started me
Joey Raya: I've been taking pain medication. Prior to that, for
Joey Raya: Pain management for my knees. And at that time I was taking Norco 10 325 just on an as needed basis. Usually, it was maybe
Joey Raya: Twice a week three times a week at the very most, just if I had a an extra you know heavy day at work.
Joey Raya: You know, so
Joey Raya: And then after that, at about december of 2018 they switched me from the Norco
Joey Raya: To the percocet five
Joey Raya: For the, for the pancreatic pain.
Joey Raya: And then about
Joey Raya: Maybe April or so of last year, they bumped it up to the 10 325 okay and and it just it it stayed at the 10 325 range.
Joey Raya: And I was okay with not going to anything higher, but I did let them know that sometimes they would have to take more than one depending on how severe the pain was
Joey Raya: Gotcha. Okay.
Dr. Figg: So, you told me before that methadone percocet gabapentin combination was started by the inpatient palliative team.
Joey Raya: At yes at UC Irvine. Correct.
Dr. Figg: Why in why did it gets switched to the Sunday Times.
Joey Raya: Because I had been taking I had been taking opioids, I guess for for so long. And because my condition is idiopathic
Joey Raya: And, to be quite honest with you, there's no end in sight. As of right now.
Joey Raya: They wanted to get me on some type of
Joey Raya: Pain management that that would work. But that wasn't opioid based so that when I did get better. I wouldn't have any issues later on down the line.
Joey Raya: Which I'm very thankful for.
Dr. Figg: Okay, so they wanted a safer alternative basically that's
Joey Raya: Correct, yeah.
Dr. Figg: That's a good reason.
Dr. Figg: But you didn't have any problems or did you have any problems with taking more pain medication than you were prescribed with getting pain medication from multiple doctors or sources.
Joey Raya: Now, now, I always went to the same same pain management doctor every time.
Dr. Figg: Okay. And so you're you're coming to Brian heart. Now just for mostly the payment our pain management program. The primarily works on Suboxone side effects.
Joey Raya: That that's, that's correct. What
Joey Raya: There's so many wheels.
Joey Raya: What I went into the ER last week you know I told them that I was having trouble finding a position to prescribe this
Joey Raya: Text for me through the pain management.
Joey Raya: Out here because a lot of the physicians out here that have the licensure to prescribe that do it for opiate cessation or opiates sensation.
Joey Raya: Not for pain management.
Dr. Figg: Okay, cool. I understand it. Okay. Um, let's talk about some other history. Are you allergic to anything.
Joey Raya: That specifically but reglan and diaper Hydra mean I have reactions to
Okay.
Dr. Figg: You mentioned that you have knee pain in both knees. It sounded like
Joey Raya: Yeah, I've used to write professional skateboards and I've had
Joey Raya: Two knee surgeries on my left knee and one on my right right and so
Dr. Figg: Do you have any other medical conditions, other than the idiopathic pancreatitis, and the knee pain. Okay.
Joey Raya: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Figg: You mentioned the only other medication was toward all anything else.
Joey Raya: Toward all on the imitrex that's
New tracks. Okay.
Dr. Figg: And but you haven't had any migraines recently.
Dr. Figg: Correctly, other than the knee surgeries, have you in the stent or attended Stanford placement. Have you had any other surgeries.
Joey Raya: A tonsillectomy. And what I was one in 1977
Dr. Figg: Okay, cool. That's young for a tonsillectomy. Well, okay.
Joey Raya: It was back in the day when when I had a repetitive ear infections.
Joey Raya: And so, yeah, that was one of their
Joey Raya: These do that i tubes and all that, all that stuff your
Dr. Figg: Family history, thinking about mom, dad, brother, sisters, any major medical problems with mom or dad.
Joey Raya: Dad is diabetic. Okay.
Joey Raya: Mom is fine.
Dr. Figg: Okay, they're both alive and tell you good
Dr. Figg: Brown brothers or sisters any health problems. No.
Joey Raya: Okay.
Dr. Figg: How many brothers and sisters. Do you have
Joey Raya: I have two younger sisters one full sister and one half sister. Okay, cool.
Dr. Figg: Um, you mentioned that you work nine to tell me, emergency services or something to that effect.
Joey Raya: Yeah. Yes. I'm a, I'm an EMT here in Anaheim. Yeah. Okay, awesome. Cool.
Dr. Figg: And
Dr. Figg: Do you drink any alcohol.
Joey Raya: No I do not.
Dr. Figg: Do you have any other drug use. History
Joey Raya: I smoked marijuana for me with nausea gives me pain or pain. I keep me appetite up
Joey Raya: In addition to all of this. I've lost
Joey Raya: Almost 80 pounds now since
Joey Raya: November 2019 or 2018. Sorry. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Is that due to lack of appetite, or because you have chronic diarrhea a
Joey Raya: lack of appetite.
Dr. Figg: And you're not on any kind of pancreatic enzyme
Joey Raya: No, they did have me on Zen PEP for back in May, when they thought that it might be the diversity, but then after discovering that that was not the case. I was taken off of this Empath and have not taken any sense probably mid June of last year.
Right.
Dr. Figg: So all right, so bright heart is there are multiple things that we do, we do addiction treatment for some people, we have a pain management program. We have a weight loss program. We have several things they're all based around our Telehealth services.
Dr. Figg: But are both on paying even in our addiction treatment stuff are based around weekly support groups.
Dr. Figg: So you have a history of chronic pain that's the program that you would probably benefit from the most
Dr. Figg: The way our program is set up is that we get you hooked up with a weekly support group of other people who have similar chronic pain issues so that you can support each other and share strategies for other non medication based pain management. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Okay, because medication is one aspect of it. But there are a lot of other things that are helpful for pain management.
Dr. Figg: The groups are led by a counselor with a background in pain management in chronic pain.
Dr. Figg: We also have pain boarded physicians who alternate with our internal medicine. So I'm internal medicine. I do the medication management, primarily, but we also have pain management warded physicians who do other non medication based education and support and things like that.
Dr. Figg: Every week, the group. Start with medication management with the was my computer so
Dr. Figg: medication management check ins with the doctor. So you basically get access to your doctor every week or every other week to make sure that
Dr. Figg: Your pain as well controlled your functioning is maximized. And just so you understand subtext is not the only thing that we do. It's the only opiate that we manage
Dr. Figg: For safety reasons and for tell
Dr. Figg: But for instance, you're also on gabapentin with I do gather content management and and other things as well.
Dr. Figg: So you have weekly or every other week access to your doctor, basically, to make sure is your dose adequate, do you have your supply. Are you having any problems. Are you having any side effects. Is there more or less that we could or should you
Okay, okay.
Dr. Figg: When's the when's the last time you took your time.
Joey Raya: This morning about 5am and it was
Joey Raya: Oh, it was only one milligram. And yeah, before that.
Joey Raya: Was about
Joey Raya: 1216 hours prior to that was another one milligram. Yeah. OK, so
Dr. Figg: My inclination here is that you should be on a higher dose.
Dr. Figg: Excuse me, constipation, we can manage if that's the only major side effects that it sounds like you got at a higher dose.
Dr. Figg: Me relax works better than Cena
Dr. Figg: For opioid induced constipation mural X is generally first line.
Dr. Figg: So that would probably work better and I would stop the sound all together, that's more likely to give you spasms and cramps than actually move things along.
Joey Raya: Okay. All right. There's
Dr. Figg: Just no center. Make sure I'll squeeze. But if there's not enough water, then it's just going to squeeze. It's not going to move things
Joey Raya: Yeah, that's, that's another issue too is, you know, I don't have an appetite and
Joey Raya: I'm not very, very thirsty and
Joey Raya: You know, I have a
Joey Raya: I have a thermos and it's
Joey Raya: It's really a chore to get through it, just one time throughout the day.
Dr. Figg: Right. Um, as far as groups go so I
Dr. Figg: I have a pain management group that I alternate with the pain boarded doctor on Thursdays at 130 or at noon to noon. One is getting a little full
Dr. Figg: So we're looking for.
Dr. Figg: To fill up our 130 Thursday through
Joey Raya: With. Now, how long is the meeting.
Dr. Figg: Their, their hour long meetings.
Joey Raya: An hour long um
Joey Raya: Thursday at 130 that's
Dr. Figg: That's one of my availabilities
Dr. Figg: For for my patients with chronic pain if that's if that's a no go. That's a non starter. I have availability, but not much for my noon or if neither of those work, we can find there are other doctors who do this as well.
Joey Raya: The new WORKS, HONESTLY THE noon works best. The 130 would be cutting it just a little close because I have a chiropractic appointment every
Joey Raya: Tuesday and Thursday at 240 and, you know, I've been attacking this pancreatitis thing. I'm from all angles. I mean, I see a nutritionist a chiropractor. You know, I have my primary I have the pain management. I mean,
Joey Raya: Just trying to do anything I can
Dr. Figg: Okay, I understand that's fine. Um, let's make sure I'm not going to commit to putting you in the noon, because I don't want to cross my counselor who I do the group with
Dr. Figg: No longer have enough time to do things so i don't i don't want to do that.
Dr. Figg: But we'll, we'll make sure and look at which we can get you into if the 130 is now going to 12 years ago. I'll have the care coordinators set up a different group with you. Like I said, there are other groups as well.
Dr. Figg: And for your medication. I think we should put you on eight milligrams space throughout the day, we should start at a higher dose than you were at because
Dr. Figg: It sounds like six milligrams in the day you're you were unimpressed with you felt like it was less effective than what you were previously. And both of those are a load of still
Dr. Figg: If we look at our ceiling of 32 milligrams in the day we're on the way, low and
Dr. Figg: Now it's different for
Dr. Figg: Everyone everybody sensitivity to this medication and requirements are totally different.
Dr. Figg: Though on the low end of dosing is that you're not in withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: And that your pain and functioning are treated the best we can. And on the high end of dosing. The high limit his side effects or the seal. Right. Does that make sense.
Dr. Figg: So I want
Dr. Figg: A high enough dose that we maximize what you're able to do and minimize your pain.
Joey Raya: Right.
Dr. Figg: With the lowest effective dose so that we don't have side effects. So does that make sense.
Joey Raya: Yes.
Dr. Figg: And it sounds like you were on an adequate dose.
Dr. Figg: And so I would start you on four milligrams twice a day. The, the actual duration of effect for buprenorphine is usually 18 to 30 hours. It's on the longer side, it's a little bit different for everyone, but usually we can do twice a day dosing pretty well.
Dr. Figg: For pain management. So I would start with you have the tablets are the films.
Joey Raya: They were just the sublingual tablets.
Dr. Figg: Okay, great. So you're familiar with how to take them.
Joey Raya: Have a little yeah
Dr. Figg: All under your tongue. Don't chew them. Don't swallow them, don't eat or drink afterwards, things like that. Good.
Yeah.
Dr. Figg: And did you have any problems with your insurance as far as coverage for
Joey Raya: A No.
Joey Raya: Okay, no, no, I haven't. I, I, I just got married. And so my insurance has changed.
Joey Raya: Okay and so i mean it's it's a full on you'd have
Joey Raya: To so I'm guessing I probably shouldn't have any issues.
Dr. Figg: I think they actually want usually
Dr. Figg: Either way, if I'm going to write the prescription for the generic and if for some reason they go all know we want film, just let us know as soon as possible, so we can fix the prescription, because sometimes
Dr. Figg: Yes, in advance for the insurance companies rules, but
Joey Raya: I understand. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: I would start you at four milligrams twice a day and then see how that works, and then go up or down as we need to.
Dr. Figg: Um, one of the things you're talking about is that you get flares, which is typical of relaxing chronic pancreatitis, regardless of whether it's idiopathic or for alcohol or whatever.
Dr. Figg: And that you were thinking of going to the ED.
Joey Raya: Yes, that is correct.
Dr. Figg: Is that because you're out of medication.
Joey Raya: No, no, that's because I'm I'm keeping my shit together pretty good right now i'm i'm about a seven. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Okay, um, even when you were on the Methadone Percocet. Did you still have days where you said, I'm going to go to the ED.
Dr. Figg: Yeah. All right.
Dr. Figg: So that you understand my goal is to treat your pain, including the flares, as well as I can so you don't have to go to the ED.
Dr. Figg: Ed and you're on Suboxone, the answer is yeah, they can give you whatever they want. They just have to give you more.
Dr. Figg: So,
Joey Raya: They can donate as Suboxone or
Joey Raya: Under such either way.
Joey Raya: Either way, if you have
Dr. Figg: buprenorphine in your system. It just raises the threshold.
Joey Raya: Oh, I see. Okay. Pass. Okay.
Dr. Figg: It's it hasn't blocking mechanisms so that if you take, you know, purchase that are delighted or heroin or whatever that person was taking before
Dr. Figg: At the normal versus it has no effect. You just have to cross the threshold with the pain management with the pain medication.
Joey Raya: I see that I didn't know I was under the impression that
Joey Raya: That they blocked the receptors completely
Dr. Figg: For free in
Dr. Figg: Effect. It does.
Joey Raya: It locks it up into a certain level.
Dr. Figg: You just have to give more pain medication to kick the buprenorphine now.
Joey Raya: Yeah, see, I did not realize that completely i i thought that it just said.
Dr. Figg: It's not irreversible, but it hold on tighter to the receptor than most other medications do so in order to kick it off and get the effect they have to give you more, but things like tour.
Dr. Figg: Dalhousie are totally different. That's an anti inflammatory
Joey Raya: As I think
Dr. Figg: With the opiate receptor. So that'll work. But just so that you understand the, the answers are to either give you more buprenorphine which is valid option or to give you more of whatever else until it works.
Joey Raya: I say okay
Dr. Figg: And you've been on opiates for a couple years now your tolerance to them, to some degree, you're less likely to have respiratory depression in a monitor setting.
Joey Raya: Right, yeah. Also, just so you know, I'm actually
Joey Raya: Here we go. It used to be on my desk, but I have my my Narc can
Dr. Figg: Okay, cool.
Joey Raya: From when they gave me the method when they first started me on the Methadone percocet combination. They gave me a narc and for home.
Dr. Figg: So you understand buprenorphine on its own. It's a partial agonist, which means and only flip that switch halfway
Dr. Figg: tighter than others, so it prevents the action. That's why we use it for addiction management and prevents other opiates were having an effect. Under normal circumstances.
Dr. Figg: But it effectively on its own. You can't overdose on it because it does, it has a ceiling of about 32 milligrams. And beyond that, just more doesn't do anything else. And that's not enough to put people into respiratory arrest.
Dr. Figg: don't check. So that's why it's a safer medication. From that standpoint, but for people who have been on opiates for a while. It also tends to be more effective and it reduces
Hypersensitive
Joey Raya: Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: I'm gonna, I'm going to end my talk here. I'm going to issue your prescription for four milligrams twice a day. I'm going to give you a two week supply
Dr. Figg: I'm going to have the care coordinators reach back out to you to
Dr. Figg: Set up your time for your group and then I'm gonna let you go so that you can go to the ED if you need to. Okay.
Joey Raya: All right, I appreciate it. Um,
Dr. Figg: You know, it was nice to meet you. If you have any questions please reach out to the. I'm sorry. My kids came up
Dr. Figg: Please reach out to the virtual clinic. Okay, they're the best point of contact for you. Okay.
Joey Raya: All right, I appreciate it. Thank you for your help.
Dr. Figg: You take care. I hope you feel better soon.
Joey Raya: Thank you. Have a good one.
Dr. Figg: And on his church report. He's been on buprenorphine and he was on methadone and Percocet and things like that before. He's going to be restarted on buprenorphine four milligrams twice a day, and we're going to get them plugged into a pain management.